[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Some
principles to take away here.
In any place where I found code that I
wanted to share it between the two places,
the best way to do that was
to organize it into a module.
And I chose the UMD style just because it
doesn't require any other moving pieces,
it's just a file that
can load in both places.
But you can easily offer them in
whatever module format you like and
use something like Browserify.
And I loaded my modules into
my server using require,
like we see right here.
I'm using the require to load it up.
Now, I didn't really talk about this.
I kinda glossed over it,
but you'll notice that I was just
automatically putting these shared
modules in a location where I knew I'd
be able to load them in the browser.
And then I just went and got them
from the same location on the server.
That may or may not be the appropriate
approach for a real production app.
In fact, more likely you're probably
gonna have some sort of build process
that's taking your files
that you want to share, and
it's packaging them up from some
non-web associated location.
And making a copy of them over
to the web accessible location.
My web directory for example.
So I probably have some sort of
grunter go process that was running,
that is minifying my files and
moving things around, and
doing transportation and all that.
And one of the things that it would do,
it would take my foo module
from my say main route or
some module sub directory.
And it would prepare that in
whatever way is necessary,
and it would copy it to
the webJS directory.
And therefore my require
statement that's happening there.
I would not be requiring it
from the webJS directory.
I'd be requiring it from
its normal location.
But to keep things simple,
I just had one file in one location.
To set up our route, I didn't have to
think about any of the other mechanics
of how routing was happening cuz that
part's are already been written for me.
In exactly the same way as you would
set up one of those sorts of things
in Express or any of the other frameworks,
we just wrote ourselves the function.
In the function here,
its goal is to figure out in
whatever way is necessary [COUGH] whether
it wants to handle the request or not.
Here I wrote a regular expression.
There's lots of modules out there,
not big frameworks but
tiny little modules that let you
do smart things with routing.
They'll automatically kind of
author your regular expression, or
whatever you need them to do.
[COUGH] And so if you didn't wanna
write your own regular expressions,
you could pull in a module
into node that would do that.
We handled this, and
we told the router that I had written,
we told it that we'd handled
it by returning true.
If we don't return true,
it would end up throwing it to a push.
So I guess my last check would be,
what happens if I try to call localhost.
You do this.
Look at my network here.
What happens if I try to call a localhost,
port 8050?
And what happens if I give it a foo
that has no URL parameters on
it?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well there's a JSON
response going back.
Not sure why it said no, but
that's our JSON response coming back.
But what happens if I do
a URL that is not even
recognized?
>> Kyle Simpson: [LAUGH]
I have to give it one that actually
would fail the regular expression.
And you see I get that
404 route that I set up.
So instead of having a 404 route that just
gives a blank page, you could of course
load up a real 404 page and
throw it out in exactly the same way.
So those are the main principles
that I use when I'm trying to share
code between them.
And the overriding design principle I
have here is starting with nothing, and
only doing the bare minimum
in any given situation.
Instead of assuming that I need a really
super complex framework with tones
of bells and whistles.
And then spending days and days reading
through their documentation trying to
figure out exactly how to get it to work.
I feel confident enough that I can just
write if statements, or for loops, or
functions, or whatever to do
the things that I need it to do.
And you may not already
feel that comfortable, but
it won't take a lot of practice if
you practice with that shell app
that I gave you, and you tried
a couple of things that we did here.
If you tried that two or three times,
you'd very quickly get to the point where
you'd have that same kinda confidence.
I can write the JavaScript in the places
that I need to make it happen.
[COUGH] Thankfully,
I didn't get bitten by too many errors
that weren't that difficult to track down.
I wish we had a little bit more time,
we probably would have talked a little
bit more about node debugging.
There's lots of great tutorials
out there on the web.
So if you go through node school,
they talk about how to do node debugging.
You can do either command
line debugging with node, or
you can do remote debugging from something
like your Chrome console or whatever.
So that would have been a way to track
down some of our node errors if we'd been
having those.